.\" (c) 2001 by Poonlap Veerathanabutr (Poonlap.Veerathanabutr@sun.co.jp)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" $Id: wtt.3,v 1.3 2006-08-01 11:38:21 thep Exp $
.TH wtt 3  "Sep 16, 2001" "Thai Linux Working Group" "libthai's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fBwtt\fR \- WTT I/O implementation
.sp
\fBTAC_chtype\fR \- Determine type of a character defined by TACTIS.
.br
\fBTACio_op \- Check composibility of two chracters.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <thai/wtt.h>\fR
.br
\fIint\fR \fBTACchtype\fR(\fIthchar_t c\fR);
.br
\fIint\fR \fBTACio_op\fR(\fIthchar_t c1\fR, \fIthchar_t c2\fR);
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
WTT stands for Wing Tuk Tee (in Thai, Runs everywhere). It was defined by TACTIS (Thai API Consortium/Thai Industrial Standard) in the NECTEC Thai Software Standard Project (1989-1991), and later endorsed by Thai Industrial Standard Institute (TISI) as TIS 1566-2541 in 1998.
.PP
WTT classifies Thai chracter(TIS-620) into 17 types below.
.sp
\fITYPE  VALUE SHORT_DESCRIPTION\fR
.br
CTRL    0    control characters
.br
NON     1    non composible characters
.br
CONS    2    consonants
.br
LV      3    leading vowels
.br
FV1     4    following vowels 1
.br
FV2     5    following vowels 2
.br
FV3     6    following vowels 3
.br
BV1     7    below vowels 1
.br
BV2     8    below vowels 2
.br
BD      9    below diacritics
.br
TONE    10   tonemarks
.br
AD1     11   above diacritics 1
.br
AD2     12   above diacritics 2
.br
AD3     13   above diacritics 3
.br
AV1     14   above vowels 1
.br
AV2     15   above vowels 2
.br
AV3     16   above vowels 3
.sp
Functions in \fBthctype\fR do basic character classifications while \fBwtt\fR classifies a chracter in detail. Please refer to the reference.
.sp
\fBTACio_op\fR checks how to compose two given chracters. The possiblities are Composible(CP), Non-display(XC), Accept(AC), Reject(RJ) and Strict Reject(SR). The values of CP, XC, AC, RJ and SR are difined in wtt.h. And their meanings are:
.sp
CP : second character is displayed in the same cell as the first, also implies an acceptance. 
.br
XC : Do nothing.
.br
AC : Display second character in the next cell.
.br
RJ : Discard second character.
.br
SR : Reject second character only in strict mode.
.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBTACchtype\fR returns an interger defined in the file wtt.h.
.br
\fBTACio_op\fR returns CP, XC, AC, RJ or SR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.B libthai(3), thctype(3)
.br
"Thai Input and Output Methods" by Dr.Thaweesak Koanantokool
.SH AUTHORS
\fBProject Leader\fR
.br
Theppitak Karoonboonyanan <thep@linux.thai.net>
.br
\fBMembers\fR
.br
Chanop Silpa-Anan <chanop@syseng.anu.edu.au>
.br
Pattara Kiatisevi <ott@linux.thai.net>
.br
Vuthichai Ampornaramveth <vuthi@nii.ac.jp>
.br
Poonlap Veerathanabutr <Poonlap.Veerathanabutr@sun.co.jp>
