.\" (c) 2001 by Poonlap Veerathanabutr (Poonlap.Veerathanabutr@sun.co.jp)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" $Id: template.3,v 1.2 2003-09-10 05:29:45 thep Exp $
.TH COMMAND section-number  "Sep 14, 2001" "Thai Linux Working Group" "libthai's Manual"
.SH NAME
.B command
options
.SH SYNOPSIS
How to use
.SH DESCRIPTION
Detailed explanation of programs and options. Paragraphs are introduced by .PP.
.PP
This is a new paragraph.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Explanation of return value if this manpage is for C library.
.SH FILES
Files used by the command, e.g., passwd(1) mentioned /etc/passwd
.SH "SEE ALSO"
References to related documents, including other manual pages.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Description of any unusaul output
.SH BUGS
Surprising features
.SH AUTHORS
\fBProject Leader\fR
.br
Theppitak Karoonboonyanan <thep@linux.thai.net>
.br
\fBMembers\fR
.br
Chanop Silpa-Anan <chanop@syseng.anu.edu.au>
.br
Pattara Kiatisevi <ott@linux.thai.net>
.br
Vuthichai Ampornaramveth <vuthi@nii.ac.jp>
.br
Poonlap Veerathanabutr <Poonlap.Veerathanabutr@sun.co.jp>
